The text and accompanying artifacts — images, video, audio, applications, etc — must demonstrate your ability to think through a problem and iterate a project over time. Make sure to also consider how these projects speak to the abilities you are presenting as part of your ethos. Use 250-300 words for each analysis.

//atkinson landscaping

/old
Atkinson Mowing & Yard Works was a booming business with a weak visual identity. Run by two young entrepreneurs with a passion for excellent customer experience, the brand didn’t reflect the vision of the company. After undergoing a name change to Atkinson Landscaping, the owners approached me for a new, bold and recognizable logo supported by professional-grade brand deliverables.

Starting with a clean and readable font, I wanted to create a logo that had distinct features which could be seen and identified from a distance, especially from a car passing by a company truck or yard sign. Uncomplicated sans-serif fonts allow for readability from all distances, and the monochromatic colour scheme is recognizable as an Earth-sky relationship. The circular graphic is able to be easily translated to an icon for social media use.

Landscaping companies can be untrustworthy and under-qualified, and so the main objective for the physical deliverables was to make a professional impression on customers. Through the number of iterations of business cards, the name of the cardholder has been the largest and most focal element, creating a sense of trust and a personal relationship.

Car magnets need to be legible and readable from a car window. Crowding the magnets with lots of information or graphic distractions would result in confusion with no informational value, and so we kept the door magnets simple with minimal information. For tailgate magnets, we were able to add details for vehicles following behind or stopped at a red light.

Overall, Atkinson Landscaping has been transformed from outdated and unclear to bright and bold, representative of the people and the values of the company.

Words : 271

/new
Atkinson Landscaping was a booming business with a weak visual identity. Run by two young entrepreneurs with a passion for excellent customer experience, the brand didn’t reflect the vision or personality of the company. Landscaping companies can be untrustworthy and under-qualified, and so the owners approached me for a brand-new bold and recognizable logo supported by professional-grade brand deliverables.

I actually had previously designed a logo for Atkinson Landcaping when they first started up, but made two critical errors in that design: first, in an effort to go retro, I used a script font as the focal point. Because of the looping script, the logo could be read as Allison Landscaping. Second, the secondary font that I chose was too light of a weight, making it practically invisible. Both of these decisions eventually caused the owners to go to a different designer and use a different logo.

The second time they asked me to work with them, I was not going to make those mistakes again.

Starting with a clean and legible font, I wanted to create a logo that had distinct features which could be seen and identified from a distance--especially from a car passing by a company truck or yard sign. The green-blue analogous colour scheme is memorable, and can be associated with an Earth-sky relationship. Through hours of pixel-by-pixel feedback, the completed logo was as much a labour of love for the owners as it was for me.

Designing business cards, car magnets, and t-shirts for Atkinson Landscaping has generated a lot of brand recognition in the community since we started the rebrand two years ago. The new identity has shifted the owners' focus from just running a functioning company, to casting a larger company vision of being the best, most respected landscaping company in the Lower Mainland. The company found new life and a new swagger.

Word count: 310

//young life of canada

/new
With a vision to standardize and modernize the visual identity of Young Life in British Columbia, I was asked to update and create resources for Area Directors and for the Director of the Coastal Region. Many of the decisions regarding colour and type were made based on the existing brand standards guide for Young Life in the United States in order to create further recognizability and consistency across the overarching brand of Young Life. 

The regional org chart was in need of an update, and not just in terms of the personnel. The original chart was disorganized, confusing, and (ironically) had no visual hierarchy. The first iterations of the org chart struggled with column width and meaningful alignment of the appropraite people within the same column. I experimented with landscape and portrait orientations, bottom-up and top-down flows, and different arrangements of personnel. Even though the final iteration actually added personnel and ministries, effective use of columns, colour, and bold text help guide the eye and make the org chart substantially less overwhelming. 

As a non-profit organization, Young Life is funded by donors. Young Life staff members send out newsletters to their donors either monthly or semi-monthly; these are critical points of contact for donors to feel involved in the organization, and to keep Young Life front-of-mind. However, across the Coastal Region, Area Directors are on their own to write and design their newsletters. I was asked to create a “Must-Haves” resource for Area Directors, giving them digestible but effective instructions about how to best format and utilize the newsletter platform. I targeted the document format and writing style towards the adult staff members with varying levels of technological knowledge.

Over the course of a few months, my work became the standard of the visual identity of the Coastal Region. With a friendly voice and colour scheme, and cleaner presentation, Young Life Coastal presents as an approachable and current organization.

Word count: 319